-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

# Trezor Canary

## Statements

The Trezor core developers who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is March 5th, 2024.

2. The Trezor Project has never:

   a) turned over the bootloader/firmware private signing keys to anyone

   b) introduced any backdoors to their software and/or hardware

3. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
two weeks of June 2024. Special note should be taken if no new canary
is published by that time or if the list of statements changes without
plausible explanation.

## Disclaimers and notes

We would like to remind you that Trezor has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently
compromised.  This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers
or services which host or provide any Trezor-related data, in
particular, software updates, source code repositories, and other
downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other
means, like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce
us to produce false declarations.

The news feeds quoted below (Proof of freshness) serves to demonstrate
that this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated.
It shows that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to
anybody. None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.

## Proof of freshness

Block at depth 833310 (2024-03-05 20:31 UTC) in the Bitcoin blockchain:

00000000000000000000187a016e40c456e7bd64b8b0accbe1a9b4da53bddc91

## Footnotes

[1] This file should be signed via attached PGP signatures below.

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures!

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIzBAEBCAAdFiEEhuZ5L8J7/UeIYMEQkfOzObmgKj0FAmXnhdgACgkQkfOzObmg
Kj008Q//TMx9MMLkc/nKdamDB5qZM/aNPXyBobYegmcbK3txdHxIeeAKp7LNQRND
ahuCGHXXqo3sFSZ98/pfIyqfS+Krhrv182qKwAWn4CfMlPCbYGwlXz/kYxsruYWV
LfGg8Z3t5oIsa4vMVQ28a9XVM/URPgOp1XRItaZPjhVGuFS10oGVBJx5+zXgvgz0
ZuVBvirlCj9yWgIlvqTbCcKMErOuEuYaWS6Y8NHbEzdZecFh7J0GR0lkBWrfFZc5
6B7FBBwXk0H5k0TSdZherleoDlQTML6pr8GPqq5kIhGME2LtqBroh6IEx9/ouFCY
e4IvMpOdi69hG5DRsk0C2dFR90NPwRELQHxqWUE98mALcw9tGUGDxVPNdcz0eSf5
rw4tIZ3Q0Zfp7WCOPewlQ7UWkdHADnVxIwGI5EqSqscxDmanUE4V0YNTONdUY/+b
EKE1xcVWL/NBPcYzPtbQ8LjL4eboUyrwhzfXhBge0MarlH7SSZrkwLDehrdiywKq
dvmUafxaIYKfD5yiiQyjVIUpiAY5iXAgG6n8Q1/uP5n8VNCpN17NXr5byjrJJbYq
BggRIbO6mqfYj4uDDqZXeNxzgEm+pP7b+oRO+xIQy/ueSTT5ID3FlIhuLAjf4q0S
cswHVOWtwMFH/bJ3j5A3ewRHRlrLR9eWRUnbALKou2GiZ2Nyk3Y=
=Dxfx
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
